README.md, before:

# Duncannon Sand Sculpture Festival

This is a website for a County Wexford based sand sculpture arts festival. Traditional sand sculptures are sandcastles, but now the art form has elevated into sculptures of virtually anything a person could expect to see already created through stone, metal or wood.

The Duncannon festival has been operating since 1999, with a closure of 2 years due to Covid-19. It will return in 2023, and this new website hopes to inform the public of the dates and schedule of events, to engage potential visitors through images of past gatherings and informational content regarding sand sculptures, and to create a level of anticipation for the upcoming festival. Also, there is a section where interested artists, both professional or amateur, and potential volunteers can register their interest in being involved in a hand-on way.

It is primarily targeted towards families, as there are many child-friendly and teenager-friendly participation events. However it is also targeted at those who are looking for entertainment in the outdoors, and for tourists of all ages to the region.  
![mockups](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190539871-9341a8ce-a568-4950-8868-d73cac06cf48.jpg)



## Features

### Existing Features

#### Navigation Bar

Featured on all three pages, the full responsive navigation bar includes links to the Home page, Gallery and Sign Up page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button.

![navbar](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190543724-94604d89-cddd-4ce6-9195-829e41f3720f.jpg)



#### Landing Page Hero Image
The landing includes a photograph with text overlay to allow the user to see exactly which date this festival will be starting.
This section introduces the user to the site with an eye catching animation to grab their attention

![hero](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190543878-2b092323-7a0a-43b8-961b-1d79d1c36e0f.jpg)



#### Landing Page

* Introductory Section

This section introduces the user to the site, states a basic history and describes the festival's ethos and objectives.

![intro](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190540169-7493b1f4-7a37-4ede-b301-2f701eab2688.jpg)


* Schedule section

This section will allow the user to see exactly what events are happening each day of the festival, the times they operate for, the location, and if an event is free or not.
This section may be updated as these times may change depending on weather or interest.

![schedule](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190523222-71559a2f-b465-431d-9d92-3cb40bcdddc9.jpg)


* How to Sandsculpt section

The How to Sandsculpt section will allow the user to see how easy it is for them to do a sandsculpture. 
This will hopefully give the user the confidence to consider taking part in the event, and by doing so, they may bring others to the event also.

![how-to-sandsculpt](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190523244-e609c34a-1109-461c-ba6e-b9ba6e7c1a9c.jpg)



#### The Footer

The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for Duncannon Sand Sculpture Festival. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user. The footer also gives full address, email address and phone number for the organisers.
It is designed with a waves theme, which is appropriate overall, and the eye catching animation is designed to grab their attention towards the social media links, encouraging them to like/follow.

![footer](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190523282-20b68b98-6b76-4cad-8229-b692207d8d02.jpg)



#### Gallery

The gallery will provide the user with supporting images to see what previous festival sculptures and events looked like.
This section is valuable to the user as they will be able to easily identify the types of sculptures the professional artists at the festival produce.

![gallery](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190544956-506156cd-a321-4cad-984e-8ad9f1824f9e.jpg)



#### Sign Up Page

This page will allow the user to get signed up to the website to start their involvement. The user will be able specify if they are volunteers looking to work at the festival, or amateur/professional artists who would like to take part in the sculpture events. The user will be asked to submit their full name and email address. In the case of professional artists, they will also be asked to submit photos of previous work.

![get-involved](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190537720-0ab88360-2b8e-471d-be67-06f5c029572c.jpg)




### Features Left to Implement
I would like to implement a new page with the history of the festival at a later date. I had begin to do this, but time constraints did not allow me to finish it adequatley, so I will add this at a further time.

### Testing

All Links are working, video playback is working. Information is current. 

The site looks best on a larger screen, it does not look as good on a smaller screen. 

The site itself is laid out coherently, it allows the user to easily navigate throughout. 


#### Unfixed Bugs/Issues
I am unable to get the hero image to reduce for smaller screen sizes.

I wanted to make the video on the Gallery page a larger size on PC screen, and I succeeded, but when I tried to make it suitable for smaller screens parts of the video were being cut off, I reverted back to the current size as I was just unable to figure this out.

The text on the How to Sandsculpt sections is giving me difficulty when I reduce size for smaller screens. I cannot get the text to align in the center correctly.

I was changing the colums in this from 3 to 4 to see what they would look like, I didn't like it, so I changed it back to 3. But now the pictures are a bit off at the bottom, there is some white space around them and I don't know how to fix it.

#### Validator Testing

* HTML
No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator. 

* CSS
No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator.




### Deployment
The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:



### Credits

#### Content
Information for the text for the Home page was sourced from the Cockleshell Art Gallery and the Duncannon Sandsculpting facebook page. Other information was found via Independant Newspapers and The Irish Times newspapers.
The layout used has been closely appropriated from the Love Running Project by The Code Institute, with some code changes.
The wave footer code was created with help from Codepen.io website
Other coding help was utilised from Slack, W3CSchools and Codecademy websites.
The icons on the homepage were taken from Font Awesome.
The icons in the footer were taken from Ionicons.
#### Media
The photos used as the homepage hero image and schedule image, and the sign up page are from the Adobe iStock website.
The photo used on the homepage how to sandsculpt page was taken from the instructables website.
The photos used for the gallery page were taken from the Duncannon Sandsculpting Social Media pages, and from the collections of the Cockleshell Art Gallery and artist Daniel Doyle.
The video of the 2014 festival was taken from the RTE Facebook page.

Commit message:

Update readme file regarding home/index page issue

README.md, after:

# Duncannon Sand Sculpture Festival

This is a website for a County Wexford based sand sculpture arts festival. Traditional sand sculptures are sandcastles, but now the art form has elevated into sculptures of virtually anything a person could expect to see already created through stone, metal or wood.

The Duncannon festival has been operating since 1999, with a closure of 2 years due to Covid-19. It will return in 2023, and this new website hopes to inform the public of the dates and schedule of events, to engage potential visitors through images of past gatherings and informational content regarding sand sculptures, and to create a level of anticipation for the upcoming festival. Also, there is a section where interested artists, both professional or amateur, and potential volunteers can register their interest in being involved in a hand-on way.

It is primarily targeted towards families, as there are many child-friendly and teenager-friendly participation events. However it is also targeted at those who are looking for entertainment in the outdoors, and for tourists of all ages to the region.  
![mockups](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190539871-9341a8ce-a568-4950-8868-d73cac06cf48.jpg)



## Features

### Existing Features

#### Navigation Bar

Featured on all three pages, the full responsive navigation bar includes links to the Home page, Gallery and Sign Up page and is identical in each page to allow for easy navigation.
This section will allow the user to easily navigate from page to page across all devices without having to revert back to the previous page via the ‘back’ button.

![navbar](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190543724-94604d89-cddd-4ce6-9195-829e41f3720f.jpg)



#### Landing Page Hero Image
The landing includes a photograph with text overlay to allow the user to see exactly which date this festival will be starting.
This section introduces the user to the site with an eye catching animation to grab their attention

![hero](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190543878-2b092323-7a0a-43b8-961b-1d79d1c36e0f.jpg)



#### Landing Page

* Introductory Section

This section introduces the user to the site, states a basic history and describes the festival's ethos and objectives.

![intro](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190540169-7493b1f4-7a37-4ede-b301-2f701eab2688.jpg)


* Schedule section

This section will allow the user to see exactly what events are happening each day of the festival, the times they operate for, the location, and if an event is free or not.
This section may be updated as these times may change depending on weather or interest.

![schedule](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190523222-71559a2f-b465-431d-9d92-3cb40bcdddc9.jpg)


* How to Sandsculpt section

The How to Sandsculpt section will allow the user to see how easy it is for them to do a sandsculpture. 
This will hopefully give the user the confidence to consider taking part in the event, and by doing so, they may bring others to the event also.

![how-to-sandsculpt](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190523244-e609c34a-1109-461c-ba6e-b9ba6e7c1a9c.jpg)



#### The Footer

The footer section includes links to the relevant social media sites for Duncannon Sand Sculpture Festival. The links will open to a new tab to allow easy navigation for the user. The footer also gives full address, email address and phone number for the organisers.
It is designed with a waves theme, which is appropriate overall, and the eye catching animation is designed to grab their attention towards the social media links, encouraging them to like/follow.

![footer](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190523282-20b68b98-6b76-4cad-8229-b692207d8d02.jpg)



#### Gallery

The gallery will provide the user with supporting images to see what previous festival sculptures and events looked like.
This section is valuable to the user as they will be able to easily identify the types of sculptures the professional artists at the festival produce.

![gallery](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190544956-506156cd-a321-4cad-984e-8ad9f1824f9e.jpg)



#### Sign Up Page

This page will allow the user to get signed up to the website to start their involvement. The user will be able specify if they are volunteers looking to work at the festival, or amateur/professional artists who would like to take part in the sculpture events. The user will be asked to submit their full name and email address. In the case of professional artists, they will also be asked to submit photos of previous work.

![get-involved](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/56842503/190537720-0ab88360-2b8e-471d-be67-06f5c029572c.jpg)




### Features Left to Implement
I would like to implement a new page with the history of the festival at a later date. I had begin to do this, but time constraints did not allow me to finish it adequatley, so I will add this at a further time.

### Testing

All Links are working, video playback is working. Information is current. 

The site looks best on a larger screen, it does not look as good on a smaller screen. 

The site itself is laid out coherently, it allows the user to easily navigate throughout. 


#### Fixed Bug/Issue

I had originally had a home page instead of index page, so was having trouble deploying, the readme page was showing instead of the website. I got help from a tutor to correct this issue.

#### Unfixed Bugs/Issues
I am unable to get the hero image to reduce for smaller screen sizes.

I wanted to make the video on the Gallery page a larger size on PC screen, and I succeeded, but when I tried to make it suitable for smaller screens parts of the video were being cut off, I reverted back to the current size as I was just unable to figure this out.

The text on the How to Sandsculpt sections is giving me difficulty when I reduce size for smaller screens. I cannot get the text to align in the center correctly.

I was changing the colums in this from 3 to 4 to see what they would look like, I didn't like it, so I changed it back to 3. But now the pictures are a bit off at the bottom, there is some white space around them and I don't know how to fix it.

#### Validator Testing

* HTML
No errors were returned when passing through the official W3C validator. 

* CSS
No errors were found when passing through the official (Jigsaw) validator.




### Deployment
The site was deployed to GitHub pages. The steps to deploy are as follows:



### Credits

#### Content
Information for the text for the Home page was sourced from the Cockleshell Art Gallery and the Duncannon Sandsculpting facebook page. Other information was found via Independant Newspapers and The Irish Times newspapers.
The layout used has been closely appropriated from the Love Running Project by The Code Institute, with some code changes.
The wave footer code was created with help from Codepen.io website
Other coding help was utilised from Slack, W3CSchools and Codecademy websites.
The icons on the homepage were taken from Font Awesome.
The icons in the footer were taken from Ionicons.
#### Media
The photos used as the homepage hero image and schedule image, and the sign up page are from the Adobe iStock website.
The photo used on the homepage how to sandsculpt page was taken from the instructables website.
The photos used for the gallery page were taken from the Duncannon Sandsculpting Social Media pages, and from the collections of the Cockleshell Art Gallery and artist Daniel Doyle.
The video of the 2014 festival was taken from the RTE Facebook page.
